I've been speaking with Republican
Governors and the Republicans I know in
the US and that's quite a few of them as
well as conservatives in Canada about
the K through2 education system as well
as the higher education system but let's
start with k through2 so I want to run
another proposition by you so I worked
in the universities for a long time and
I saw how they worked and I worked at
Harvard which was an unbelievable
unbelievably functional institution in
the 1990s I'd never been anywhere like
it Migel was good I went to school as a
graduate student at Migel and I had a
very good educational experience there
and Migel did a lot of things right but
Harvard was really knocking it out of
the park when I was there in the 90s um
the senior faculty were the smartest
people I'd ever met and the most
educated the uh undergraduates were
unbelievably high quality like a third
of them were the smartest kids you'd
ever seen and the other two-thirds were
they were contenders you know and so and
uh the place really served excellence
and so and then you could see the edges
of the politically correct movement
manifesting itself around the fringes in
the 1990s but they really didn't have
any real power the last time I was down
in Boston was about a month ago I met
some of my former colleagues great
people really and uh they've all joined
the Free Speech movement at Harvard and
they set theel at odds with the
administration which is an appalling
thing to see you know and that's Harvard
and then I was at the University of
Toronto for a long time and it made a
lot of noise about Excellence but really
had no fun no real fundamental clue
about what it meant or how to pursue it
and and uh but I had a very good time
there and and I liked it a lot but I
learned a lot about what was wrong with
higher education and emblematic of
what's wrong with higher education is
the faculties of Education okay they're
full of educational psychologists and
that's a corrupt discipline and almost
everything that it's produced is a lie
whole word learning that's a lie that
anti phonics movement the self-esteem
movement that's a complete bloody lie
and all it did was produce a pack of
narciss ists um multiple intelligences
that's complete bloody lie like the
educational psychologists have been a
negative influence consistently for 60
years and the the faculties of Education
have arguably the worst students in the
university and arguably the worst
faculty now why is that a problem well
they're radical and incompetent that's a
big problem in the United States they
control 50% of the state budgets 50%
okay and the faculties of Education are
why the conservatives lost the culture
War and the conservatives have been too
blind for four generations to see this
and there's a Nexus
point the faculties of Education have a
hammer lock on teacher certification and
I don't understand that they there's no
evidence whatsoever that their training
regimens produce qualified teachers none
we also even know what makes a teacher
effective conscientiousness is the trait
High cognitive ability and
conscientiousness you can select them
why what's your view of what's corrupted
the K through2 education system and what
do you think might be done about it
because like I think that the faculties
of Education should have the right to
certify teachers stripped from them it
would kill them and they deserve it and
I think the reason
the classic liberals and the
conservatives have lost the culture wars
because the faculties of Education Have
Had A Hammer lock on teacher
certification so I know that's a
mouthful and it's a radical analysis and
radical proposition but I'm wondering
what you think of what's going on in the
K through2 system sorry I'm smiling
because uh what I think about the
education system the big first thing
comes to mind is our education system in
British Columbia today is teaching kids
what to think it's not teaching kids how
to think it's not teaching kids how to
be critical thinkers and that is to me
is the fundamental problem within the
system itself and so there's material
that is within our education system
which is designed for more um of uh an
indoctrination as opposed to actually
providing kids with the skills they need
kids are coming out of school and
University professors College
Specialists are telling me they're not
prepared for anything postsecondary they
can't read and they don't know anything
some people can't even write their own
name and so I look at the system I think
okay what is needed to start with is we
need to do a full review of all the
material that's being made available for
teachers so and look at it from a
perspective of being being neutral who
would review it you you know how would
go both You' got to put a team together
that's going to review it and so it's
going to be some Educators it's going to
be some people that are not Educators
who are going to go through and look at
the material from that critical lens and
so you know for example there's I think
a book in grade four math I think it's
called math that matters and the math is
correct 2 plus 2 equals 4 but the
language being used is all about
environmentalism it's all social justice
oriented exactly it's all about you know
anti-development and that whole side of
things so we when the kids go to school
why why got this bent and because this
is what they've been taught this is what
they've been Ado day from day one for 12
years yeah so we're going to try to
change all of that right in terms of
that material make sure it's all neutral
in terms of how the information is being
provided and quite frankly we need to
bring in something you know that I think
is critical fiscal management you know
teaching kids about how money actually
works compound interest and you know
debt and all those sort of things so
those those will be some big shifts that
we need to do and the fight okay so let
let me ask you a question about that
so why neutral exactly like why not
unabashedly anti-communist unabashedly
pro- free Market unabashedly Western
tradition of Freedom you know because I
think and I'm I'm it seems to me that
one of the errors that conservatives and
classic liberals have made consistently
across time is a kind of apologetic
neutrality so I'll give you one example
so at the University of Toronto in my
personality course so it's a psychology
course seconde psychology course I used
to teach the kids about what happened in
stalinist Russia and I did that because
I used Alexander solj niten as an
example of existential psychology
because he was an existential
psychologist like Victor Frankl now one
of the shocking things to me was that
none of my students had ever heard about
what had happened in Russia between 1920
and
1989 let's say um even though we fought
we just about torched the planet and we
fought a cold war over it they had no
idea what the stalinists had done and so
that's a good example of something that
where even neutrality isn't sufficient
it's like the Communists were brutal
genocidal murderers wherever they've set
up shop it's happening again in
Venezuela it's still happening in Cuba
it threatens all of South America China
is a complete bloody catastrophe on the
on the ideological front and they're
permeating the world it's a catastro and
our education system tells students
nothing about that and you know
conservatives are this is this
particularly true in Canada although
it's starting to shift is that they're
so terrified of being demolished by the
woke mob and also of being accused of
something approximating social
conservatism is that they do take refuge
in something like neutrality but I'm not
sure it's time for neutrality anymore it
depends what you mean by neutrality so
in terms of it and by the way regarding
the council culture Council culture only
works if you allow them to cancel you
yes you just have to stand up and say
you know take a hike and and it goes
away right because when if they can't
cancel you then they have to find some
something else to do so but with Garden
school what I mean by neutrality is not
that we won't teach about communism that
we won't teach about the Holocaust
because we will we need to show that
from a perspective of this is the facts
that happened this is the evil that
happened this is this is the damage that
was done with it not just from an
ideological perspective but from a facts
base and that's what I mean by neutral I
don't mean neutral is we won't talk
about communism we won't talk about you
know fascism we won't talk about you
know democracy or capitalism whatever
case may be we will but in terms of
providing facts and information so that
people the kids can look at this and
come to their own conclusions and
because you're going to have people
still on the left and the right and
families are still going to have lots of
influence and I think that's okay that's
rounded Society I think it gets it where
Society runs into trouble is it gets too
far on any one particular side you know
the pendulum swinging back and forth and
so you want to try to keep that as much
as you can into a place where it creates
positive uh opportunities and and people
who are informed and critical thinkers
and are able to look at information that
comes forward with a critical eye and
ask the questions based on facts that
they have that you know particular from
our history and so that's what I'm
hoping our education system will become
[Music]